MAKING ROLLS:
Use D100, if you roll lesser or equal than your attribute, you win.
If the roll is difficult you may gain Boons. For each Boon roll D6, on 6 automatically win the roll, regardless of D100 roll.
If the roll is difficult you may gain Banes. For each Boon roll D6, on 1 automatically lose the roll, regardless of D100 roll.
Boons and Banes cancel each other out.

COMBAT AND ACTIONS:
Combat is divided into players round and enemy round.
During players turn, players take actions in any order.
During enemy turn, enemies take actions in any order.
Players round is first, however players roll for initiative (this is Dexterity check). If they lose, they do not gain Standard Action turn 1.
Players during their turn can perform once each of following actions: Move Action, Standard Action and Swift Action.

Standard Actions:
 - Attack - use any attack ability your character gained during level ups.
 - Basic Attack - roll for Strength or Dexterity to deal D10 damage to an adjacent enemy.
 - Run - Move number of squares equal to your speed.
 - Gain Mana - Gain 5 mana and place mana drain marker on your location until end of combat. 
   You cannot make this action while within 5 squares of mana drain marker.
Move Actions:
 - Move number of squares equal to your speed
 - Push adjacent enemy no larger than you 3 squares but not on dangerous terrain.
Swift Actions:
 - Change weapons
 - Drink potion
No Action:
 - Spend 5 mana to reroll any chance roll of ability with encounter cooldown.

EFFECTS:
Unless specified otherwise all effects stacks. Each instance of effect have to be tracked separately. 
Eg. you hit twice with an effect that grants you +5 damage for 3 turns. Yoy have two instances of +5 damage effect,
which effectively means you deal +10 damage for 3 turns.
Whenever ability can repeat, note that repeats cannot loop.

HEALTH AND DYING:
After each combat regain all Mana.
After rest (8 hours with sleep) regain 10 Health

When you are reduced to 0 HP, gain 1 Experience Point and roll for dying: Roll D10 and add number of your Scars:
1-9 - You become unconscious until end of combat. After combat regain 1 HP and gain 1 Scar.
10 - You rally! Set your HP to 1 and until start of your turn you have 30% chance to ignore any damage.
11-20 - roll D10 again: 1-3 you die, 4-10 you rally as above.
21+ - you die (note that this is almost impossible to reach this level as not all results grant you Scars)


CHARACTER STATS AND CREATION:
Players have 6 attributes:
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Charisma.

(!) During Character creation assign 70, 60, 50, 40, 30, 20 to each attribute.

Note that attributes can influence your combat skills, but do not have to.

Players have 12 skills:
Athletics (STR)
Intimidation (STR)
Acrobatics (DEX)
Stealth (DEX)
Endurance (CON)
Survival (CON)
Knowledge (INT)
Crafting (INT)
Medicine (WIS)
Perception (WIS)
Persuasion (CHA)
Streetwise (CHA)

(!) During creation, you set 3 skills as trained. Gain 1 Boon when rolling for this skill.

(!) Each Character additional has following resources:
30 Maximum Health + 1 per Strength and Constitution bonus. If reduced to 0, you can die, but usually won't.
10 Maximum Mana +1 per Intelligence and Wisdom bonus. Can be used to improve combat abilities or reroll chance rolls during combat. Restored to maximum value after each combat.
6 Movement Speed. How fast you can move during combat.
0 Scars. Each time you are close to death, add a Scar. The more Scars you have the more likely you are to die or perform heroic deeds. If you have more than 10 Scars things start to become really dangereus.

LEVELING UP
Whenever you win a combat encounter, gain 2 XP
At the end of an adventure GM grants extra XP.
Certain abilities grant XP.
At the end of adventure check your XP, your character has a level for each 10 XP.
Whenever at the end of adventure, after level ups, you have lower level than the highest level player in a party, gain 1 EXP for each level difference between you. You can't gain level from this EXP this adventure yet.

Whenever you gain a level:
 - gain 1 ability, chosen from some number of generated abilities
 - gain 1 maximum Health
 - gain 1 maximum Mana

NICHE RULES
Corruption.
Corruption points are permaments. Corruption points cannot be removed by abilities unless they are directly mentioned. When you reach 100 or more Corruption, reduce your corruption by 100 and roll in below table. 
1 - Gain 5 Scars then roll for dying.
2 - Permamently lose 5 maximum Health. This effect cannot be removed by abilities.
3 - Lose 10 Strength, lose 10 Dexterity, lose 10 Constitution (3 separete effects).
4 - All rolls have 1 Bane penalty until the end of the next adventure. This effect cannot be removed by abilities.
5 - Gain 10 Experience points. 
6 - Permamently gain 5 maximum Mana.

Blessing.
Blessing Points are permanent. Whenever you reach 100 or more Blessing, reduce your Blessing by 100 and roll in below table:
1 - Remove all Scars you have.
2 - All rolls have 1 Boon until the end of the next adventure.
3 - Gain 10 Experience points.
4 - Permanently gain 5 maximum Health.
5 - Raise any of your attributes by 10, but not above 50.
6 - Next time you see "you die" effect (eg. dying roll or corruption roll) you can ignore it.